MiniCloud is a cloud-computing toolkit built on OpenVZ
* Installation is simple and operational tasks are to the point
* It's perfect for rapid testing and development requiring disposable compute resources
* There is no central database (or any database)

== Overview
MiniCloud is a set of client/server programs to drive the container-based virtualisation platform, OpenVZ.
It allows you to manage instances with a simple set of command line tools.

MiniCloud was built out of a frustration surrounding existing open source cloud management solutions. 
It aims to be simple while being flexible enough to fit into an organisations existing infrastructure.

== Installing the server
Install and setup OpenVZ: http://wiki.openvz.org/Quick_installation. MiniCloud
expects OpenVZ to be operational and able to run containers. Currently MiniClould server
must be run as root.

Clone the MiniCloud repo to install.
  $ sudo su -
  $ cd /opt
  $ git clone https://github.com/ryandoyle/minicloud.git
	
Run the MiniClould server, specifying a range of IP addresses that it can hand out
  $ /opt/minicloud/sbin/mcserver -r 10.0.0.100-10.0.0.200
	
Check the log files
  $ tail -f /opt/minicloud/log/mcc-server.log
	
== Installing the client tools
The client tools are also part of the MiniCloud repo. They are all located under bin/

Clone the MiniCloud repo.
  $ cd ~/
  $ mkdir .minicloud
  $ git clone https://github.com/ryandoyle/minicloud.git .minicloud/
  $ export PATH=$PATH:~/.minicloud/bin
	
== Create an instance
Once we've setup the server and client tools, we can create an instance

Fist export the MCC_SERVER environment variable. It is the hostname and port of the 
MiniCloud server.
  $ export MCC_SERVER=myopenvzserver:8080
	
List the images we are able to select
  $ mcc-list-images 
      IMAGE   centos-5-x86_64
      IMAGE   centos-5-x86
      IMAGE   fedora-14-x86_64
      IMAGE   gentoo-10.0-x86_64
      IMAGE   ubuntu-10.04-x86_64

List the instance types we can select
  $ mcc-list-instance-types 
      INST_TYPE	  basic
      INST_TYPE	  light
      INST_TYPE	  unlimited
      INST_TYPE	  vswap-1024m
      INST_TYPE	  vswap-256m
      INST_TYPE	  vswap-512m
		
List the keys we have associated with MiniCloud
  $ mcc-list-keys
	
Humm, nothing. We need to register one
  $ mcc-add-key --name doylenet --public-key "ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2.....aQ== mykey"

Now let's launch an instance!
  $ mcc-run-instances -i centos-5-x86_64 -t basic -k doylenet -n my-web-server
            ID   IP
      INST  501  10.0.0.110
		
We will get back the ID of the instance and the IP address to connect to. Let's see the 
progress using mcc-list-instances
  $ mcc-list-instances 
               ID   IP          STATUS   TEMPLATE              NAME
      INSTANCE 501  10.0.0.110  running  centos-5-x86_64       my-web-server
		
It's up! At the moment the instance won't appear until it is up and running. 
It may take a few seconds for the instance to appear. It will not be present in the list 
until it is up and running!

== Destroy an instance
It's easy - use mcc-destroy-instace

First check the running instances
  $ mcc-list-instances
            ID   IP
      INST  501  10.0.0.110

Kill off any you don't want
  $ mcc-destroy-instance -i 501
	
It could take a while for MiniCloud to kill off the instance. Use mcc-list-instances to check the status
  $ mcc-list-instances
	
== Notes
* The server needs to be run as root
* Calls between the client and server are XML-RPC over HTTP without authentication

== Todo
* Client-side libraries to do what the CLI tools do
* Rspec tests and mocking RPC calls
* RPM and DEB packages for installation of the server, client tools and libraries
* Running the server as a user other than root
* Look at better RPC methods
* Replace the vz* binary programs with Ruby equivalents


== Copyright


Copyright (c) 2012 {Ryan Doyle}[http://ryandoyle.net]

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.



